# 1997 October Bible Drive Report

*May 1998*

The Bible Foundation 6th Annual October Bible Drive in joint 
co-operation with KPDQ, K-LOVE Radio, KKPZ & KKSL, KHPE, Christian News 
Northwest, Mission Portland, Promise Keepers, Christian Supply, 
Christian Marketplace, Emmanuel Gospel Supply, and Higher Ground 
Christian Resource Center was a big success. October through December 
saw 3,825 Bibles NT's, etc. come in, bringing the total for the year to 
5,087, just in the northwest. Hundreds of churches, organizations, and 
individuals in the northwest got involved and interest is spreading 
around the country. 

One bookstore collection center has been receiving a substantial amount 
of donated Bibles, involving many hundreds. When discussing it with the 
owner, he said he thought that over 90 percent were being brought in by 
one man. He said since they were accepting the Bibles for needy people 
around the world, this man took it on as a personal mission to go round 
up as many as he possibly could. He would go to garage sales, thrift 
stores, book stores, churches, wherever he could think to look. Much he 
would get free and some he would purchase. He would even climb into 
dumpsters to salvage discarded Bibles. 

Most of the Bibles have been coming from the greater Portland, Oregon 
area including Vancouver, Washington. Many of the outlying areas have 
also been getting involved with various folks arranging to have the 
Bible brought to one of the collection points. One thing always seems 
to lead to another with this ministry. A need for a collection center 
in Medford lead us to the Salvation Army there which agreed to not only 
accept Bibles dropped off there but in their Ashland and Grants Pass 
thrift stores also. 

K-Love Radio this year did an interview and used it to produce a number 
of spots to promote the drive. They proceeded with the publicity and 
ran it also in California and Arizona. This brought in a number of 
calls showing the possibility of expanding the October Bible drive to 
areas where participants must provide shipping to collection centers. 
Over the years collection centers have been arranged in MI, WI, SC, GA, 
AZ, CA, and OR. This is developing toward the long time dream of a 
nation wide Bible drive. 

Our friend in Saint Louis reported that over 1000 Bibles, Testaments, 
etc. have been collected there in 1997. A lady in Louisiana led her 50 
member children's choir in a production related to the need for Bibles 
around the world. They raised several hundred dollars and collected 
many Bibles and presented the great need to many. 

English is becoming the dominant world language. Bibles are sent to 
over 30 countries besides the United States and go to evangelistic 
ministries, hospitals, nursing homes, inner city churches & ministries, 
rescue missions, ship ministries, prison & jail ministries, homeless 
shelters, street ministries, ethnic neighborhood ministries, migrant 
camps, and individual ministries. 
