# Delivered from Death

In the dark of night, the African death squad came for P.T. He was in 
the cold prison awaiting execution because one Saturday night someone 
at work told him his wife was at home having an affair. He ran as fast 
as he could and in a fit of rage, he pulled a gun and shot them both 
dead. He "started to take to his heels," but was grabbed and held for 
the police. His sentence was death and the wait began.

One Sunday a minister came and handed out some small Bible Foundation 
Scripture portions. P.T. read over and over the passage with the words, 
"The Son of man has power on earth to forgive sins," and he wept through
the night. God delivered him from eternal death and he was ready for 
the death squad. In the darkness of one night, a big, black truck 
arrived and the condemned were taken out. P.T. stood watching as one 
by one they went onto the truck. He was the last and as his turn came 
he saw there was no room for him. He was sent back to bed and told they 
would get him the next time. The truck disappeared into the dark. The 
next day a cable came, changing P.T.'s sentence from death to life in 
prison.

He reflected on his wicked past and recent developments and praised God 
for deliverance. God had gotten his attention and he strongly wanted a 
Bible, so he wrote to Bible Foundation and requested one. The Bible was 
sent and within a few weeks he wrote expressing great appreciation. He 
said, however, that there were over 200 Christians there, and the one 
Bible did not go very far. He asked if more could be sent. Over time 
many were sent and letters came back asking for more. He said more 
people--even guards--were becoming Christians, and they needed more. 
He said prisoners were being released and they would take the Bibles 
with them so more were needed. He said other prisons found out about 
it and they wanted Bibles also. One day a letter arrived from someone 
who had been a prisoner there, saying he was now an evangelist and 
needed Bibles for his ministry.

- - -

Of the thousands of letters received begging for Bibles, many tug at 
the heart. Young Muslims write that they've become Christians and 
families disown them. Christians are beaten; Christian schools and 
churches are destroyed; many people are killed. In the midst of it all, 
believers grow strong and continue to spread the gospel, but the 
overriding plea is for more Bibles. A refugee from Mozambique wrote 
there are 1,975 Christians in their church, but they lack Bibles. One 
writer said, "We are displaced and most of us are refugees here in 
Uganda. We have lost almost all necessary materials for our personal 
use and the Lord's work, due to the civil war in the Sudan. There is 
GREAT NEED of Bibles among the displaced people. Kindly we beg more 
used Bibles."

The need for English Bibles is unending. There are over 100 countries 
today that use English and it is now taught in most countries. Anyone 
who is interested can get involved, and technology is making it easier. 
The Lord continues to expand the large network of individuals, 
organizations, churches and multinational ministries, and Scripture 
continually goes to hungry hearts.

- Jerry Kingery
